## CHANGES IN VERSION 0.99.19

### Bug fixes
* Simplified loops with mapply/lapply 

### New features
* `EpiCompare`: accepts multiple reference files - creates individual reports
for each reference. Added timing feature. 
* `save_output`: this function saves all plots and tables generated by EpiCompare.
Also saves interactive heatmaps. 

## CHANGES IN VERSION 0.99.18

### Bug fixes

* `prepare_reference`: Validate reference input before passing to next step.
* Pass named list to `genome_build` to allow for different builds between
`reference` and `peaklist`. 
* Liftover `blacklist` to match GRanges list it's being used to filter in `tidy_peakfile`. 
* Ensure all names are unique in `peaklist` and `reference`. 
* `gather_files`:
    - Avoid gathering duplicates peak files from `nf-core/cutandrun`. 
    - Add progress bar. 
    - Add report at the end. 
    - Add extra arg `return_paths` to return only the paths 
    without actually reading in the files.  

### New features

* Overhaul how *EpiCompare* handles genome builds:  
    - New argument `genome_build_output` allows users to specify 
    which genome build to standardise all inputs to. 
    - `genome_build` can now take a named list to specify different genome builds
    for `peakfiles`, `reference`, and `blacklist`.  
    - Added functions to parse and validate all genome build-related arguments. 
* Remove unnecessary deps.
* Use `data.table` to read/write tables. 
* `prepare_peaklist`:
    - Simplified code.
    - Added arg `remove_empty` to automatically drop any empty elements.
    - Embed `check_list_names` within. 
* `plot_chromHMM`:
    - Can return data as well with `return_data`. 
    - Performs liftover on chromHMM data instead of the `peaklist`.

## CHANGES IN VERSION 0.99.17

### Bug fixes

* Make `output_dir` creation recursive and without warnings. 
* Add new params to *Code* section of rmarkdown output. 

### New features

* Add new `peaklist` length check to `prepare_peaklist`.
* New check functions:
    - `check_genomebuild`: ensure necessary packages installed and that 
    "genomebuild" is valid.
    - `check_cell_lines` 
* `liftover_grlist`: Dedicated liftover function, exported.  
* Document `checkCache`. 
* `get_chromHMM_annotation` can now take a list of cell lines as an argument. 

## CHANGES IN VERSION 0.99.16

### Bug fixes

* Fix GHA pkgdown building: 
    - The newest version of [git introduced bugs when building pkgdown sites](https://github.com/actions/checkout/issues/760) from within Docker containers (e.g. via my Linux GHA workflow). Adjusting GHA to fix this. 

## CHANGES IN VERSION 0.99.3

### New Features

-   New functions with examples/unit tests:
    -   `import_narrowPeak`: Import narrowPeak files, with automated header annotation using metadata from ENCODE.\
    -   `gather_files`: Automatically peak/picard/bed files and read them in as a list of `GRanges` objects.\
    -   `write_example_peaks`: Write example peak data to disk.
-   Update *.gitignore*
-   Update *.Rbuildignore*

## CHANGES IN VERSION 0.99.1

### New features

-   New parameter in EpiCompare:
    -   `genome_build`: Specify the genome build, either "hg19" or "hg38". This parameter is also included in `plot_chromHMM`, `plot_ChIPseeker_annotation`, `tss_plot` and `plot_enrichment`.

## CHANGES IN VERSION 0.99.0

### New Features

-   `EpiCompare` submitted to Bioconductor.
